## About this event

Research has a large role to play in combating the climate crisis. At the same
time, research practices have a carbon footprint. This includes the use of
energy for the processing and analysis of large datasets. The footprint of the
IT sector is sizable, accounting for an [*estimated 1.8-3.9% of global
CO<sub>2</sub> emissions*](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.patter.2021.100340). As the
people who best understand our own work, we are ideally placed to reduce the
carbon footprint of our research. As the need for computational power in
research grows, including increasing adoption of AI tools, we must address the
challenges and opportunities in making scientific computing more sustainable.


This workshop is primarily aimed at researchers in life sciences (e.g.,
neuroscience, biology, biochemistry, genetics), but will have value for any
researchers who rely on research computing. If you're interested in
sustainability but unsure how to implement eco-friendly practices in your
research computing, this event is tailor-made for you. We encourage attendance
by practising researchers who may have minimal computing experience through to
those who consider themselves to be proficient.


We are holding the workshop in person to facilitate discussion and debate.
However, to maximise accessibility, this event will be hybrid, with an option to
join via video conferencing, including a live stream, and opportunities to ask
questions and engage in group discussion.

By attending this event, you will:

-   Learn how to reduce the carbon footprint of your own research computing
using diverse approaches, giving you the ability to feed these insights back to
your institution.

-   Network with other health and life sciences researchers interested in
sustainability, providing new opportunities for collaboration.

-   Contribute to an emerging community of climate-conscious scientists, helping
to foster a more sustainable future for the scientific community and the planet.

We look forward to seeing you on November 7th.

If you have any questions, please contact Nick Souter, at
[*N.Souter@sussex.ac.uk*](mailto:N.Souter@sussex.ac.uk)
